COMMAND LINE IN TERMINAL
pwd : print working directory (Shows you the path to the working directory.By typing this we’re asking the
computer which folder(directory) we are in.

ls : short form of list. It lists the folders and files inside my current working directory (pwd) If you wanna go into
one of these folders we type this:

cd ( change directory) and the name of the file.
Eg: cd Documents or cd Music

If you wanna go back one level before, you type: cd ..
• You can go through old commands by using up or down arrows

• Cmd k: This helps you look your terminal clean.You can still use arrows!because it doesn’t clean the history.
Ctr a: Gets you to the beginning of the cursor, Ctr e: to the end of the line. Click option and cursor where you
wanna go. Ctr u: it deletes the whole line

If you wanna delete the command you wrote because you may think you’ve made a typo.So in that case just ctr c
to kill the running.

• Mkdir:(make directory) it creates a folder.
Eg: mkdir “Northcoders course”. If you don’t use the quotation mark,it would create two folders named
Northcoders and course. Or another way to create the folder is:
Eg: mkdir Northcoders\ course. There is a backslash and a space before course.You can create more folders on
the same line.

• Touch: this command will create a file. Eg: touch term-paper.txt. To open that file use Open command.
Eg: Open term-paper.txt
To move a file into another folder use mv command. Eg: mv+file name+which folder to move by using absolute
path or relative path

Eg: mv biology-spreadsheet.csv ~/Desktop/Second\ semester/Biology (absolute path)
• cp command: eg: cp end-of-term-paper.csv ../Final\ papers1

• Also there is echo command.It allows you to paste a text inside a txt file.
Eg: echo “hello world, how are you today.How is life going?” > paper.txt. So pasted the text inside the quotation
mark and placed it into paper.txt. Before writing the name of the txt, we need to use > sign to direct it.
To see the content of txt, we use cat command
Eg: cat notes.txt

• grep : to find a content inside a text.
Eg: grep how paper.txt (We look for word how in paper.text But here that grep command will show the lines
which consists “how”. While coding grep will help you.
Terminal Commands
Sunday, 1 October 2023 23:04
